.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fclose.3	6.7 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:19:14 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.\" Modified 2000-07-22 by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH FCLOSE 3 "23 février 2009" GNU "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
fclose \- Fermer un flux
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <stdio.h>\fP
.sp
\fBint fclose(FILE *\fP\fIfp\fP\fB);\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBfclose\fP() videra le flux pointé par \fIfp\fP (en écrivant toute
donnée de sortie en tampon avec \fBfflush\fP(3)) et fermera le descripteur de
fichier sous\-jacent.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Si la fonction réussit intégralement, elle renvoie 0, sinon elle renvoie
\fBEOF\fP et \fIerrno\fP contient le code d'erreur. Dans tous les cas, tout autre
accès ultérieur au flux (y compris un autre appel de \fBfclose\fP()) conduit à
un comportement indéfini.
.SH ERREURS
.TP 
\fBEBADF\fP
.\"  This error cannot occur unless you are mixing ANSI C stdio operations and
.\"  low-level file operations on the same stream. If you do get this error,
.\"  you must have closed the stream's low-level file descriptor using
.\"  something like close(fileno(fp)).
Le descripteur de fichier sous\-jacent \fIfp\fP est invalide.
.PP
La fonction \fBfclose\fP() peut également échouer et positionner \fIerrno\fP avec
l'une des erreurs spécifiées par les foncions \fBclose\fP(2), \fBwrite\fP(2) ou
\fBfflush\fP(3).
.SH CONFORMITÉ
C89, C99.
.SH NOTES
Notez que \fBfclose\fP() ne vide que les tampons fournis par la bibliothèque C
dans l'espace utilisateur. Pour s'assurer que les données sont écrites
physiquement sur le disque, il faut aussi vider les tampons du noyau à
l'aide, par exemple, de \fBsync\fP(2) ou \fBfsync\fP(2).
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
\fBclose\fP(2), \fBfcloseall\fP(3), \fBfflush\fP(3), \fBfopen\fP(3), \fBsetbuf\fP(3)
.SH COLOPHON
Cette page fait partie de la publication 3.23 du projet \fIman\-pages\fP
Linux. Une description du projet et des instructions pour signaler des
anomalies peuvent être trouvées à l'adresse
<URL:http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/>.
.SH TRADUCTION
Depuis 2010, cette traduction est maintenue à l'aide de l'outil
po4a <URL:http://po4a.alioth.debian.org/> par l'équipe de
traduction francophone au sein du projet perkamon
<URL:http://alioth.debian.org/projects/perkamon/>.
.PP
Christophe Blaess <URL:http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> (1996-2003),
Alain Portal <URL:http://manpagesfr.free.fr/> (2003-2006).
Florentin Duneau et l'équipe francophone de traduction de Debian\ (2006-2009).
.PP
Veuillez signaler toute erreur de traduction en écrivant à
<perkamon\-l10n\-fr@lists.alioth.debian.org>.
.PP
Vous pouvez toujours avoir accès à la version anglaise de ce document en
utilisant la commande
«\ \fBLC_ALL=C\ man\fR \fI<section>\fR\ \fI<page_de_man>\fR\ ».
