.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)fread.3	6.6 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:37:33 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sun Feb 19 21:26:54 1995 by faith, return values
.\" Modified Thu Apr 20 20:43:53 1995 by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\" Modified Fri May 17 10:21:51 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH FREAD 3 "30 mars 2012" GNU "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
fread, fwrite \- Entrées/sorties binaires sur un flux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <stdio.h>\fP
.sp
\fBsize_t fread(void *\fP\fIptr\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIsize\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fInmemb\fP\fB, FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fBsize_t fwrite(const void *\fP\fIptr\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIsize\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fInmemb\fP\fB,\fP
\fB              FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBfread\fP() lit \fInmemb\fP éléments de données, chacun d'eux
représentant \fIsize\fP octets de long, depuis le flux pointé par \fIstream\fP, et
les stocke à l'emplacement pointé par \fIptr\fP.
.PP
La fonction \fBfwrite\fP() écrit \fInmemb\fP éléments de données, chacun d'eux
représentant \fIsize\fP octet de long, dans le flux pointé par \fIstream\fP, après
les avoir récupérés depuis l'emplacement pointé par \fIptr\fP.
.PP
Pour des versions de ces fonctions ignorant les verrouillages, voir
\fBunlocked_stdio\fP(3).
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
En cas de réussite, \fBfread\fP() et \fBfwrite\fP() renvoient le nombre
d'\fIéléments\fP lus ou écrits. Ce nombre n'est égal au nombre d'octets
transférés que si \fIsize\fP est 1. Si une erreur se produit, ou si la fin du
fichier est atteinte en lecture, le nombre renvoyé est plus petit que
\fInmemb\fP et peut même être nul.
.PP
\fBfread\fP() ne fait pas la différence entre la fin de fichier et une erreur,
et l'appelant devra utiliser \fBfeof\fP(3) et \fBferror\fP(3) pour le savoir.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
C89, POSIX.1\-2001.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
\fBread\fP(2), \fBwrite\fP(2), \fBfeof\fP(3), \fBferror\fP(3), \fBunlocked_stdio\fP(3)
.SH COLOPHON
Cette page fait partie de la publication 3.52 du projet \fIman\-pages\fP
Linux. Une description du projet et des instructions pour signaler des
anomalies peuvent être trouvées à l'adresse
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
.SH TRADUCTION
Depuis 2010, cette traduction est maintenue à l'aide de l'outil
po4a <http://po4a.alioth.debian.org/> par l'équipe de
traduction francophone au sein du projet perkamon
<http://perkamon.alioth.debian.org/>.
.PP
Christophe Blaess <http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> (1996-2003),
Alain Portal <http://manpagesfr.free.fr/> (2003-2006).
Florentin Duneau et l'équipe francophone de traduction de Debian\ (2006-2009).
.PP
Veuillez signaler toute erreur de traduction en écrivant à
<perkamon\-fr@traduc.org>.
.PP
Vous pouvez toujours avoir accès à la version anglaise de ce document en
utilisant la commande
«\ \fBLC_ALL=C\ man\fR \fI<section>\fR\ \fI<page_de_man>\fR\ ».
