.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:11:11 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2004-11-12 as per suggestion by Fabian Kreutz/AEB
.\"	to note that this function is not available in glibc2.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH INFNAN 3 "2 juin 1993" GNU "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
infnan \- Traiter un résultat infini ou non numérique (NaN)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <math.h>\fP
.sp
\fBdouble infnan(int \fP\fIerror\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.sp
Effectuez l'édition des liens avec l'option \fI\-lm\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBinfnan\fP()  renvoie une valeur acceptable pour un résultat
infini ou non numérique (NaN, «\ Not a Number\ »). La valeur \fIerror\fP peut
être \fBERANGE\fP pour indiquer l'infini, ou n'importe quoi d'autre pour
représenter NaN. \fIerrno\fP est également renseignée.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Si \fIerror\fP vaut \fBERANGE\fP (infini), \fBHUGE_VAL\fP est renvoyé.
.PP
Si \fIerror\fP vaut \fB\-ERANGE\fP (\-infini), \-\fBHUGE_VAL\fP est renvoyé.
.PP
Si \fIerror\fP vaut autre chose, NAN est renvoyé.
.SH ERREURS
.TP 
\fBEDOM\fP
La valeur de \fIerror\fP est non numérique (NaN).
.TP 
\fBERANGE\fP
La valeur de \fIerror\fP est infinie (positive ou négative).
.SH CONFORMITÉ
BSD\ 4.3.
.SH NOTES
Cette fonction, obsolète, était fournie dans la libc4 et la libc5, mais
n'est plus disponible dans la glibc\ 2 .
.SH COLOPHON
Cette page fait partie de la publication 3.52 du projet \fIman\-pages\fP
Linux. Une description du projet et des instructions pour signaler des
anomalies peuvent être trouvées à l'adresse
\%http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/.
.SH TRADUCTION
Depuis 2010, cette traduction est maintenue à l'aide de l'outil
po4a <http://po4a.alioth.debian.org/> par l'équipe de
traduction francophone au sein du projet perkamon
<http://perkamon.alioth.debian.org/>.
.PP
Christophe Blaess <http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> (1996-2008).
.PP
Veuillez signaler toute erreur de traduction en écrivant à
<perkamon\-fr@traduc.org>.
.PP
Vous pouvez toujours avoir accès à la version anglaise de ce document en
utilisant la commande
«\ \fBLC_ALL=C\ man\fR \fI<section>\fR\ \fI<page_de_man>\fR\ ».
