.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:45:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" FIXME glibc 2.10 adds psiginfo(), specified in SUSv4.  This function
.\" should be documented, probably on this page.
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH PSIGNAL 3 "21 août 2008" GNU "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
psignal \- Afficher le libellé d'un signal.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <signal.h>\fP
.sp
\fBvoid psignal(int \fP\fIsig\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fBextern const char *const \fP\fIsys_siglist\fP\fB[];\fP
.fi
.sp
.in -4n
Exigences de macros de test de fonctionnalités pour la glibc (voir
\fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7))\ :
.in
.sp
\fBpsignal\fP()\ : _SVID_SOURCE || _BSD_SOURCE
.br
\fIsys_siglist\fP\ : _BSD_SOURCE
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBpsignal\fP() affiche un message sur \fIstderr\fP constitué de la
chaîne \fIs\fP, d'un deux\-points, d'un espace, et d'un libellé décrivant le
signal numéro \fIsig\fP. Si \fIsig\fP est invalide, le message affiché indiquera
un signal inconnu.
.PP
La table \fIsys_siglist\fP contient les libellés des messages, indexés par le
numéro de signal.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBpsignal\fP() ne renvoie aucune valeur.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
POSIX.1\-2008, BSD\ 4.3.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
\fBperror\fP(3), \fBstrsignal\fP(3)
.SH COLOPHON
Cette page fait partie de la publication 3.23 du projet \fIman\-pages\fP
Linux. Une description du projet et des instructions pour signaler des
anomalies peuvent être trouvées à l'adresse
<URL:http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/>.
.SH TRADUCTION
Depuis 2010, cette traduction est maintenue à l'aide de l'outil
po4a <URL:http://po4a.alioth.debian.org/> par l'équipe de
traduction francophone au sein du projet perkamon
<URL:http://alioth.debian.org/projects/perkamon/>.
.PP
Christophe Blaess <URL:http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> (1996-2003),
Alain Portal <URL:http://manpagesfr.free.fr/> (2003-2006).
Nicolas François et l'équipe francophone de traduction de Debian\ (2006-2009).
.PP
Veuillez signaler toute erreur de traduction en écrivant à
<perkamon\-l10n\-fr@lists.alioth.debian.org>.
.PP
Vous pouvez toujours avoir accès à la version anglaise de ce document en
utilisant la commande
«\ \fBLC_ALL=C\ man\fR \fI<section>\fR\ \fI<page_de_man>\fR\ ».
