.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:56:43 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Added history, aeb, 980113.
.\" 2005-05-05 mtk: added strcasestr()
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH STRSTR 3 "5 avril 2005" GNU "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
strstr, strcasestr \- Rechercher une sous\-chaîne.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.sp
\fBchar *strstr(const char *\fP\fImeule_de_foin\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIaiguille\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
\fB#define _GNU_SOURCE\fP
.sp
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.sp
\fBchar *strcasestr(const char *\fP\fImeule_de_foin\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIaiguille\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBstrstr\fP() cherche la première occurrence de la sous\-chaîne
\fIaiguille\fP au sein de la chaîne \fImeule_de_foin\fP. Les caractères «\ \e0\ » de
fin ne sont pas comparés.

La fonction \fBstrcasestr\fP() est identique à \fBstrstr\fP(), mais elle ignore la
casse de ses arguments.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Ces fonctions renvoient un pointeur sur le début de la sous\-chaîne, ou NULL
si celle\-ci n'est pas trouvée.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
La fonction \fBstrstr\fP() est conforme à C89 et C99. La fonction
\fBstrcasestr\fP() est une extension non standard.
.SH BOGUES
Des versions antérieures de la bibliothèque C de Linux (4.5.26 par exemple),
n'autorisent pas un argument \fIaiguille\fP vide dans \fBstrstr\fP(). Des versions
plus récentes (comme la 4.6.27) fonctionnent correctement, et renvoient
\fImeule_de_foin\fP si la chaîne \fIaiguille\fP est vide.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
\fBindex\fP(3), \fBmemchr\fP(3), \fBrindex\fP(3), \fBstrcasecmp\fP(3), \fBstrchr\fP(3),
\fBstrpbrk\fP(3), \fBstrsep\fP(3), \fBstrspn\fP(3), \fBstrtok\fP(3), \fBwcsstr\fP(3),
\fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)
.SH COLOPHON
Cette page fait partie de la publication 3.23 du projet \fIman\-pages\fP
Linux. Une description du projet et des instructions pour signaler des
anomalies peuvent être trouvées à l'adresse
<URL:http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/>.
.SH TRADUCTION
Depuis 2010, cette traduction est maintenue à l'aide de l'outil
po4a <URL:http://po4a.alioth.debian.org/> par l'équipe de
traduction francophone au sein du projet perkamon
<URL:http://alioth.debian.org/projects/perkamon/>.
.PP
Christophe Blaess <URL:http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> (1996-2003),
Alain Portal <URL:http://manpagesfr.free.fr/> (2003-2006).
Nicolas François et l'équipe francophone de traduction de Debian\ (2006-2009).
.PP
Veuillez signaler toute erreur de traduction en écrivant à
<perkamon\-l10n\-fr@lists.alioth.debian.org>.
.PP
Vous pouvez toujours avoir accès à la version anglaise de ce document en
utilisant la commande
«\ \fBLC_ALL=C\ man\fR \fI<section>\fR\ \fI<page_de_man>\fR\ ».
