.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 by Walter Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH TAN 3 "5 août 2008" "" "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
tan, tanf, tanl \- Fonction tangente
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <math.h>\fP
.sp
\fBdouble tan(double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBfloat tanf(float \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBlong double tanl(long double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.sp
Effectuez l'édition des liens avec l'option \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Exigences de macros de test de fonctionnalités pour la glibc (voir
\fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7))\ :
.in
.sp
.ad l
\fBtanf\fP(), \fBtanl\fP()\ : _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\
600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE\ ; ou \fIcc\ \-std=c99\fP
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBtan\fP() renvoie la tangente de \fIx\fP, dont la valeur est fournie
en radians.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
En cas de réussite, ces fonction renvoient la tangente de \fIx\fP.

Si \fIx\fP est un NaN, la valeur renvoyée et un NaN.

Si \fIx\fP est un infini positif ou négatif, une erreur de domaine est produite
et un NaN est renvoyé.

.\" I think overflow can't occur, because the closest floating-point
.\" representation of pi/2 is still not close enough to pi/2 to
.\" produce a large enough value to overflow.
.\" Testing certainly seems to bear this out.  -- mtk, Jul 08
.\"
.\" POSIX.1 allows an optional underflow error;
.\" glibc 2.8 doesn't do this
.\" POSIX.1 an optional range error for subnormal x;
.\" glibc 2.8 doesn't do this
En cas de dépassement pour le résultat, une erreur d'intervalle se produit
et les fonctions renvoient \fBHUGE_VAL\fP, \fBHUGE_VALF\fP ou \fBHUGE_VALL\fP,
respectivement, avec le bon signe mathématique.
.SH ERREURS
Consultez \fBmath_error\fP(7) pour savoir comment déterminer qi une erreur est
survenue lors de l'appel de ces fonctions.
.PP
Les erreurs suivantes peuvent se produire\ :
.TP 
Erreur de domaine\ : \fIx\fP est une valeur infinie
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR EDOM .
Une exception de virgule flottante incorrecte (\fBFE_INVALID\fP) est levée.
.TP 
Erreur d'intervalle\ : dépassement pour le résultat
.\" Unable to test this case, since the best approximation of
.\" pi/2 in double precision only yields a tan() value of 1.633e16.
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR ERANGE .
Une exception en virgule flottante de dépassement (\fBFE_OVERFLOW\fP) est
levée.
.PP
.\" FIXME . Is it intentional that these functions do not set
.\" errno (at least for domain error)?
.\" Bug raised: http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6782
Ces fonctions ne positionnent pas \fIerrno\fP.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
C99, POSIX.1\-2001. La variante renvoyant un \fIdouble\fP est également conforme
à SVr4, BSD\ 4.3 et C89.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
\fBacos\fP(3), \fBasin\fP(3), \fBatan\fP(3), \fBatan2\fP(3), \fBcos\fP(3), \fBctan\fP(3),
\fBsin\fP(3)
.SH COLOPHON
Cette page fait partie de la publication 3.23 du projet \fIman\-pages\fP
Linux. Une description du projet et des instructions pour signaler des
anomalies peuvent être trouvées à l'adresse
<URL:http://www.kernel.org/doc/man\-pages/>.
.SH TRADUCTION
Depuis 2010, cette traduction est maintenue à l'aide de l'outil
po4a <URL:http://po4a.alioth.debian.org/> par l'équipe de
traduction francophone au sein du projet perkamon
<URL:http://alioth.debian.org/projects/perkamon/>.
.PP
Christophe Blaess <URL:http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> (1996-2003),
Alain Portal <URL:http://manpagesfr.free.fr/> (2003-2006).
Nicolas François et l'équipe francophone de traduction de Debian\ (2006-2009).
.PP
Veuillez signaler toute erreur de traduction en écrivant à
<perkamon\-l10n\-fr@lists.alioth.debian.org>.
.PP
Vous pouvez toujours avoir accès à la version anglaise de ce document en
utilisant la commande
«\ \fBLC_ALL=C\ man\fR \fI<section>\fR\ \fI<page_de_man>\fR\ ».
